It was very difficult to reach these territories because we had to navigate through part of the Orinoco.
They come to other smaller rivers, many of their communities are far away.
The first time we came, we traveled on the roof of a boat.
We are within days, approximately seven days from a place of origin where our family is.
Another challenge is the language.
We realized that many did not understand their word.
In this assignment, we have come across seven different languages.
Initially, this was a demanding task.
Imagine having so much to say and not being understood.
We were able to overcome it.
But at this point, we feel that what we preach in their language,
it is reaching their hearts.
They understand.
We can see it in their face.
And that motivates them to make changes in their life.
This led a group of brothers to put forward the idea of having our own boat
for the purpose of preaching the good news of the kingdom in this area.
And that's when finally the project of El Precursor de la Masona was born.
The branch arranged for a committee to handle the task of managing and caring for the boat.
They also prepare the travel light in a hurry during the year.
They conduct important meetings such as the pre-departure meeting,
which aims to train the assigned passengers,
giving them necessary guidelines and instructions to be observed during the trip.
They also assign the different crews to man the boat.
In the morning, you get up before dawn.
Most, most likely, six in the morning, half past five.
It's still a little dark.
Morning worship is conducted at approximately seven o'clock.
Some instructions are given.
And after offering up a prayer, weed calmly at about half past seven.
During the trip, there's a chance to read.
There are assignments such as cleaning the boat, cooking.
Actually, we stay pretty busy.
And at the end of the day, we arrive at a beach or a community.
Not comparison between traveling before and traveling now.
Now we travel by limousine, east like Sirius, five stars or something like that.
Yes.
Travelling in seats, for example,
with a group of brothers, with a former meal service,
with electricity,
meetings are held, we consider the daily texts,
we share experiences, tell stories, we do everything.
It's like being in a miniature kingdom hall, traveling for five days.
We also preaching the different communities along the way.
It has its own publications and a literature card.
That makes it a very spiritual and a building experience for all of us.
The way the boat looked to them,
captured the indigenous people's interest.
The dignified presentation of the boat is something worthy of Jova's witnesses.
I also noticed that where we were sitting,
we had a little area, like a locker for each person,
that made it very comfortable.
Things that didn't exist in boats for rent.
El precursor del Amazonas has been a blessing for us.
We were able to bring our food
and some of the things we needed, such as our refrigerator, to keep it in.
Though things have been made possible,
thanks to Jova that allowed us to have this boat.
At times, we have arrived at a point where we nearly run out of all the supplies.
Something always happens.
Brothers arrive, or El precursor del Amazonas comes.
At the end, you learn to be in one,
but also to have an abundance,
seeing all this makes us feel protected,
even though we are here in the middle of the jungle.
People here in Amazonas know that there is a God,
who gives them food, provides them the river,
gives them the rain that keeps them alive.
But they didn't know that Jova is that God,
and that is our job to teach these people that Jova is the true God.
When you see the sparkle in the eyes of your Bible students
when they understand the truth,
there is nothing like it.
It compensates for any discomfort.
That's priceless.
So being in this work is the best thing you can do,
because it causes true happiness.
I am proud of being with the harvest people.
Now, I enjoy watching the videos with my family.
I conduct a family study,
and I preach with my children,
given the message to the people.
Sometimes you have to reject Bible studies,
something that seems a strange thing for Jova's witness to do.
Turn down Bible studies.
Rather, we always want to have studies,
but there are so many,
that if we start giving them all, it will be impossible.
So then sometimes we choose to tell people to wait a bit
and we'll return on another occasion.
Sometimes up to one year will pass by.
We have visited people from a year ago
that had not been spoken to since,
and they say,
hey, a year ago you said you'd return,
and now here you are.
But it's been a year, brother.
I feel good,
and I'm teaching them in Corripaco,
so they can speak to people about Jova in Corripaco.
To share in one of the preaching trips
of El Precosor del Amazonas
is a unique and unforgettable experience.
Your faith is strengthened when you return,
and you are made more aware of the need
for additional workers for the harvest.